 

# basic_manifold_torch

`CLASS basic_manifold_torch(name,variable_shape, constraint_shape, device = torch.device('cpu'), dtype = torch.float64,  regularize_value = 0.01, safegurad_value = 0)`

The class that provides essential materials to transform a manifold optimization problem to its corresponding constraint dissolving function, based on PyTorch. 

##  **Parameters:**

* **name** (str) -- Name of the manifold.
* **variable_shape** (tuple of ints) -- The shape of the variables of the manifold. 
* **constraint shape** (tuple of ints) -- The shape of the constraints. 
* **device** (PyTorch device) -- The object representing the device on which a [`torch.Tensor`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) is or will be allocated.
* **dtype** (PyTorch dtype) -- The object that represents the data type of a [`torch.Tensor`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor).
* **regularize_value = 0.01** (float, optional) -- The value of $\alpha$. 
* **safeguard_value = 0** (float, optional) -- The value of $\gamma$. 



## **Attributes:**

The attributes in the following must be defined in creating a specific manifold class. 



### Attributes that must be specified

`C(x)` (callable)

The constraints $c(x)$. The shape of `C(x)` should be the same as `variable_shape`. 





### Optional Attributes

The attributes in the following are optional in creating a specific manifold class. If not provided, the code will automatically interfere these components. 



`_parameter()` (OrdDict)

The ordered dictionary that contains all the variables that changes when `device` and `dtype` changes. 



`m2c(x)` (callable)

Flatten the variable of the manifold.



`v2m(x)` (callable) 

Recover flattened variables to its original shape as `variable_shape`. 



`Init_point(Xinit = None)` (callable)

Generate the initial point. 



`tensor2array(x)` (callable)

Transfer the variable of the manifold to the numpy Nd-array while keep its shape. Default settings are provided in the `core.backbone` class. 



`array2tensor(x)` (callable)

Transfer the numpy Nd-array to the variable of the manifold while keep its shape. Default settings are provided in the `core.backbone` class. 





`JC(x, lambda)` (callable)

The Jacobian of `C(x)`. If it is not provided, it will be automatically generated by `self.vjp(self.C, X, Lambda)`. 



`JC_transpose(x, lambda)` (callable)

The transpose of $J_c(x)$, expressed by matrix-vector production. If it is not provided, it will be automatically generated by `self.jvp(self.C, X, Lambda)`. 



`A(x)` (callable) 

The constraint dissolving mapping $\mathcal{A}(x)$. If it is not provided, the code will be automatically generated. Mathematically, it is generated by


$$
\mathcal{A}(x) = J_c(x) (J_c(x)^\top Jc(x) + (\alpha ||c(x)||^2 + \gamma)I_n )^{-1} c(x). 
$$


`JA(x, d)` (callable)

The transposed Jacobian of $\mathcal{A}(x)$.  If it is not provided, the code will be automatically generated by `self.vjp(self.A, X, D)`. 



`JA_transpose(x, d)` (callable) 

The transpose (or adjoint) of `JA(x)`, i.e. $\lim_{t \to 0} \frac{1}{t}(J_A(x+td) -J_A(x)) $. If it is not provided, the code will be automatically generated by `self.jvp(self.A, X, D)`.



`C_quad_penalty(x)` (callable)

Returns the quadratical penalty term $||c(x)||^2$. 



`hessA(X, U, D)` (callable)

Returns the Hessian of $\mathcal{A}(x)$ in a tensor-vector product form. If not provided, it is automatically generated by `self.vjp(lambda X: self.JA(X, U), X, D)`. 



`hess_feas(X, D)` (callable)

Returns the hessian-vector product of $\frac{1}{2} ||c(x)||^2$. 



`Feas_eval(X)` (callable)

Returns the feasibility of $x$, measured by value of $||c(x)||$. 



`Post_process(X)` (callable)

Return the post-processing for `X` to achieve a point with better feasibility. Default return `X`. 



`generate_cdf_fun(obj_fun, beta)` (callable)

Return the function value of the constraint dissolving function. `obj_fun` is a callable function that returns the value of $f$ at $x$. `beta` is a float object that refers to the penalty parameter in the constraint dissolving function. 



`generate_cdf_grad(obj_grad, beta)` (callable)

Return the gradient of the constraint dissolving function. `obj_grad` is a callable function that returns the gradient of $f$ at $x$. `beta` is a float object that refers to the penalty parameter in the constraint dissolving function. 



`generate_cdf_hess(obj_grad, obj_hvp, beta)` (callable)

Return the hessian of the constraint dissolving function. `obj_grad` is a callable function that returns the gradient of $f$ at $x$. `obj_hvp` is the hessian-vector product of $f$ at $x$, i.e., $\nabla^2 h(x)[d]$.  `beta` is a float object that refers to the penalty parameter in the constraint dissolving function. 







